---
permalink: /aws/
excerpt: a place for my AWS scripts and tricks I discover
collection: learning
categories:
  - software_engineering
  - learning
tags:
  - AWS
  - scripting
---

> WIP

# AWS

## IAM

- Never use `root`
- Sort out IAM users and roles (can be JSONed)
- Generate access keys for CLI (NEVER SHARE)

```sh
aws configure
aws iam list-users
```
- [ ] Assign MFA

### Roles

- EC2 and Lamba mainly

### IAM Security Tools

- [ ] [IAM Credentials Report](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_getting-report.html)
- [ ] [IAM Access Advisor](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/access_policies_access-advisor.html)
  - use to upd policies
  - IAM -> User -> Access Advisor (tab)

## Budgeting

1. You need to set up billing acces as `root` user to other users first: top-right -> Account -> IAM user and role access to Billing information -> Activate IAM Access
2. as IAM user go to account -> billing
- Free Tier - forecasting
- Budgets

## EC2


When creating - create Key pair

For Linux 2 - add this user data script (this will be used ONLY on the FIRST launch(once in a lifecycle))

```sh
#!/bin/bash
# Use this for your user data (script from top to bottom)
# install httpd (Linux 2 version)
yum update -y
yum install -y httpd
systemctl start httpd
systemctl enable httpd
echo "<h1>Hello World from $(hostname -f)</h1>" > /var/www/html/index.html
```

### Types and Classes

Types: nano, micro, xl, etc etc
Classes: 
    General Purpose:
        t2: Burstable performance instances suitable for small workloads, development, and testing.
        t3: The next generation of burstable performance instances with improved performance over t2.

    Compute Optimized:
        c5: Compute-optimized instances designed for high-performance computing and compute-intensive applications.
        c6g: Compute-optimized instances with Arm-based processors.

    Memory Optimized:
        r5: Memory-optimized instances ideal for memory-intensive applications and large databases.
        r6g: Memory-optimized instances with Arm-based processors.

    Storage Optimized:
        i3: Storage-optimized instances suitable for applications that require high-performance local storage.
        d3: Dense-storage instances with large HDD storage, suitable for big data and data warehousing.

    Accelerated Computing:
        p3: GPU instances optimized for machine learning, deep learning, and high-performance computing.
        g4: GPU instances for graphics-intensive applications and video encoding.

    High I/O:
        i3en: High I/O instances with large NVMe SSD storage for I/O intensive workloads.
        hs1: High Storage instances designed for data warehousing and big data processing.

    FPGA and ASIC:
        f1: FPGA-based instances for custom hardware acceleration.
        infra: Custom instances with AWS-designed Graviton processors.

### Security Groups

Create a separate group for SSH access
Sec groups are wrapper around EC2 and are not part of EC2

Security Groups can define other security groups to be able to connect